# Overview

| Developed by | Reflex |
| --- | --- |
| Date of development | Feb 15, 2024 |
| Validator type | Format |
| Blog | - |
| License | Apache 2 |
| Input/Output | Output |

# Description

This validator checks if a string is valid Python syntax by trying to parse the string into an abstract syntax tree. Note that this validator doesn’t check for things such as correct argument names, etc.

## Requirements

* Dependencies:
	- guardrails-ai>=0.4.0

# Installation

```bash
guardrails hub install hub://reflex/valid_python
```

# Usage Examples

## Validating string output via Python

In this example, we apply the validator to a string output generated by an LLM.

```python
# Import Guard and Validator
from guardrails.hub import ValidPython
from guardrails import Guard

# Setup Guard
guard = Guard().use(ValidPython, on_fail="exception")

# Correct python
correct_python = """
import os

def foo():
    print(f"Current path is: {os.getcwd()}")

foo()
"""

incorrect_python = """
import os

def foo()
    print f"Current path is: {os.getcwd()}"

foo()
"""

guard.validate(correct_python)  # Validator passes
try:
    guard.validate(incorrect_python)  # Validator fails
except Exception as e:
    print(e)
```
Output:
```console
Validation failed for field with errors: Syntax error: expected ':'
```

# API Reference

**`__init__(self, on_fail="noop")`**
<ul>
Initializes a new instance of the ValidPython class.

**Parameters**
- **`on_fail`** *(str, Callable)*: The policy to enact when a validator fails.  If `str`, must be one of `reask`, `fix`, `filter`, `refrain`, `noop`, `exception` or `fix_reask`. Otherwise, must be a function that is called when the validator fails.
</ul>
<br/>

**`validate(self, value, metadata) -> ValidationResult`**
<ul>
Validates the given `value` using the rules defined in this validator, relying on the `metadata` provided to customize the validation process. This method is automatically invoked by `guard.parse(...)`, ensuring the validation logic is applied to the input data.

Note:

1. This method should not be called directly by the user. Instead, invoke `guard.parse(...)` where this method will be called internally for each associated Validator.
2. When invoking `guard.parse(...)`, ensure to pass the appropriate `metadata` dictionary that includes keys and values required by this validator. If `guard` is associated with multiple validators, combine all necessary metadata into a single dictionary.

**Parameters**
- **`value`** *(Any):* The input value to validate.
- **`metadata`** *(dict):* A dictionary containing metadata required for validation. No additional metadata keys are needed for this validator.
</ul>
